{
	"title": "Srivishnu Satyavolu",
	"description": "Defended in June 2012",
	"date": "2012-05-29",
	"status": "",
	"positions": ["Graduate Research Assistant"]
}

Worked in the lab developing a video-based self-avatar using multiple Microsoft Kinects.

After graduating, he was accepted as a PhD candidate into the University of Utah's School of Computing.

Thesis
======

*Title:* Self-Avatars and IR-based Position Tracking in Virtual Environments using
Microsoft Kinects

*Year:* 2014

### Abstract

The purpose of this work is to develop a means for providing users
with real time visual body feedback when interacting in Virtual
Environments using Microsoft Kinect sensors. The advent of the
Microsoft Kinect provided the research community with an inexpensive
but versatile piece of equipment that can be used to obtain real time
3D information of the physical world. Our setup uses multiple
Microsoft Kinects to capture a 3D point cloud of a participant in the
Virtual Environment, constructs a 3D mesh out of the point cloud, and
reprojects the 3D data into a Virtual Environment so that a user can
experience his/her own body moving when looking through an immersive
display device. Previous studies have indicated that experiencing a
self avatar in a Virtual Environment enhanced user presence. In other
words, users felt the Virtual Environments to be more realistic in a
variety of measures. This work also proposes an InfraRed-based
position tracking system using multiple Kinects for tracking user's
head position when moving in Virtual Environments. A pilot study was
conducted to analyze the eects of IR interference among multiple
Kinects on the overall performance of the tracking system. The results
show that our self avatar representation combined with the proposed
tracking system should help support natural interaction of users in 3D
spaces.

[Thesis PDF](http://www.d.umn.edu/cs/thesis/Satyavolu_SrivishnuJune2012.pdf)

Publications
============

S. Satyavolu, G. Bruder, P. Willemsen, and F. Steinicke. Analysis of IR-based Virtual Reality Tracking Using Multiple Kinects. *Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Virtual Reality 2012*, p. 149--150, March 2012.

